oK we've been tracking our whale using
the hydrophone and getting some really
really loud clicks coming from this area
that we're over right now but it's gone
silent and usually a few minutes before
they surfaced that's exactly what
happens they stop clicking because
they're not hunting anymore so we're
just waiting any second now it could
break the surface very very exciting
there is over there just over there you
sim you got it it's about 200 meters in
front of us
this is as close as we can come in the
main boat you have to keep our distance
but I can get closer in the kayak
okay I'm gonna approach very cautiously
the last thing I want to do is spook him
after all he's at the surface to
recuperate
this is his rest time in between hunts
he'll spend eight to ten minutes at the
surface after a died taking in as much
air as he can
oxygenating his blood then storing the
oxygen in his muscles before he heads
back to the deep I need to keep clear of
those mighty tail flicks one swipe could
swap me in my kayak like a mosquito but
up close able to smell his breath and
see the shield his skin it's one of the
most humbling moments imaginable this is
one of nature's Giants see when you're
up close
the massive s-shaped blowhole on the
head which it's using to drive out all
of the spent air from its lungs
Wow the tail flukes are absolutely
gigantic they're almost as broad across
as my kayak and up they go totally
dwarfing me
[Music]
you